Questão 53:

Over the last two decades, technology companies and 
policymakers warned of a “digital divide” in which poor 
children could fall behind their more affluent peers without 
equal access to technology. Today, with widespread internet 
access and smartphone ownership, the gap has narrowed 
sharply. 
But with less fanfare a different division has appeared: 
Across the country, poor children and adolescents are 
participating far less in sports and fitness activities than more 
affluent youngsters are. Call it the physical divide. Data from 
multiple sources reveal a significant gap in sports participation 
by income level.  
A combination of factors is responsible. Spending cuts 
and changing priorities at some public schools have curtailed 
physical education classes and organized sports. At the same 
time, privatized youth sports have become a multibillion
dollar enterprise offering new opportunities — at least for 
families that can afford hundreds to thousands of dollars each 
season for club-team fees, uniforms, equipment, travel to 
tournaments and private coaching. 
“What’s happened as sports has become privatized is 
that it has become the haves and have-nots,” said Jon 
Solomon, editorial director for the Aspen Institute Sports and 
Society Program. “Particularly for low-income kids, if they 
don’t have access to sports within the school setting, where 
are they going to get their physical activity?” Mr. Solomon 
said. “The answer is nowhere.” 
The New York Times. 24 March 2023. Adaptado. 

Conforme o texto, um dos motivos para a disparidade relativa 
à prática de atividades físicas por alunos, segundo o nível de 
renda, reside 
(A) no abismo persistente entre as notas de estudantes ricos 
e pobres. 
(B) no corte de gastos e mudanças de prioridades em algumas 
escolas públicas. 
(C) na preferência por jogadores com potencial superior para 
competição.  
(D) na redução de bolsas de estudos para adolescentes de 
famílias abaixo da linha de pobreza. 
(E) na realização de campeonatos contemplados com 
doações de ONGs.