Questão 11:

Vincent van Gogh. Salvador Dalí. Frida Kahlo. Casual perusers 
of ads everywhere would be forgiven for thinking that art 
galleries are enjoying some sort of golden age. The truth is less 
exciting, more expensive and certainly more depressing. For 
this is no ordinary art on offer; this art is “immersive”, the 
latest lovechild of TikTok and enterprising warehouse 
landlords. The first problem with immersive art? It's not 
actually very immersive. A common trope of “immersive” 
retrospectives is to recreate original pieces using gimmicky 
tech. But merely aiming a projector at a blank canvas doesn’t 
do much in the way of sensory stimulation. My favourite 
element of an “immersive” show I have been to was their 
faithful recreation of Van Gogh’s bedroom. An ambitious feat, 
executed with some furniture and, of course, mutilated 
pastiches of his paintings. While projectors, surround sound 
and uncomfortably wacky seating are mainstays of immersive 
art, there are also the VR headsets. But many exhibitions don’t 
even include these with the standard ticket, so my return to 
reality has twice been accompanied by an usher brandishing 
a credit card machine. Sometimes these installations are so 
banal and depthless, visitors have often walked through 
installations entirely oblivious to whatever is happening 
around them. Despite the fixation “immersive experiences” 
have with novelty, the products of their labours are 
remarkably similar: disappointing light shows punctuated by a 
few gamified set pieces. 
Disponível em https://www.vice.com/en/article/. Adaptado.

De acordo com o texto, muitos visitantes das exposições de 
arte imersivas demonstram 
(A) fascínio pelas novidades tecnológicas utilizadas pelos 
curadores. 
(B) desconforto causado pelo excesso de estímulos sensoriais. 
(C) curiosidade sobre a biografia dos pintores e os 
movimentos artísticos. 
(D) apreciação pelas informações oferecidas por guias e 
educadores. 
(E) indiferença diante das simulações das obras de arte.