Questão 12:

Vincent van Gogh. Salvador Dalí. Frida Kahlo. Casual perusers 
of ads everywhere would be forgiven for thinking that art 
galleries are enjoying some sort of golden age. The truth is less 
exciting, more expensive and certainly more depressing. For 
this is no ordinary art on offer; this art is “immersive”, the 
latest lovechild of TikTok and enterprising warehouse 
landlords. The first problem with immersive art? It's not 
actually very immersive. A common trope of “immersive” 
retrospectives is to recreate original pieces using gimmicky 
tech. But merely aiming a projector at a blank canvas doesn’t 
do much in the way of sensory stimulation. My favourite 
element of an “immersive” show I have been to was their 
faithful recreation of Van Gogh’s bedroom. An ambitious feat, 
executed with some furniture and, of course, mutilated 
pastiches of his paintings. While projectors, surround sound 
and uncomfortably wacky seating are mainstays of immersive 
art, there are also the VR headsets. But many exhibitions don’t 
even include these with the standard ticket, so my return to 
reality has twice been accompanied by an usher brandishing 
a credit card machine. Sometimes these installations are so 
banal and depthless, visitors have often walked through 
installations entirely oblivious to whatever is happening 
around them. Despite the fixation “immersive experiences” 
have with novelty, the products of their labours are 
remarkably similar: disappointing light shows punctuated by a 
few gamified set pieces. 
Disponível em https://www.vice.com/en/article/. Adaptado. 

O texto apresenta uma crítica às exposições de arte imersivas 
que está relacionada com 
(A) a manipulação digital das imagens exibidas pelos usuários 
do TikTok. 
(B) o emprego das obras de arte para fins publicitários ilícitos. 
(C) a cobrança pelo uso de equipamentos para simular a 
experiência de imersão nas obras. 
(D) a falta de informação para o público leigo nos catálogos 
das exibições. 
(E) o investimento necessário para a criação da tecnologia 
usada nas instalações.